So here is one thing you need
to know about CloudFormation and security.
So CloudFormation can use service roles.
What are they?
Well, they are iam roles that you create
and they're dedicated to CloudFormation
and they allow CloudFormation
to actually create update
and delete stack resources on your behalf.
So if you want to give the ability to users
to actually create, update
and delete stack resources,
but they don't have the permissions
to directly work with the resources,
what you would do is use a service role.
So for example, we define a template
and our own iam permissions as a user is
to do actions on the CloudFormation.
And we have iam PassRole.
We also create a service role that we're going
to be dedicating to CloudFormation.
And this service role has the S3 star buckets,
permissions, for example,
to create, update and delete a bucket.
So here CloudFormation will be able
to create this S3 bucket thanks
to its service role because the user was able
to pass that role to CloudFormation.
So the use cases for security is if you want
to achieve the least privileged principle
and you don't want to give the users
all the permissions
to create the stack resources,
only the permissions
to invoke a service role on CloudFormation.
For this to work, remember the user
must have the permission named iam PassRole,
which is a necessary permission
to give a role to a specific service in AWS.
So let me show you an example
of iam roles with CloudFormation.
So if you go to iam and then you go
to the roles section in iam,
we're going to create a role
and it's for an AWS service,
the service being CloudFormation.
And next for permission policies,
I'm going to give S3 full access
just to have dedicated role for Amazon S3,
just as an example.
Click on next and I'll call
it DemoRole for CFN with S3 capabilities.
And so this role allows CloudFormation
to do anything with Amazon S3.
So this role has been created.
Now if I go to CloudFormation
and create a stack, I will just use one
of my existing templates.
I don't need to have anything very fancy.
We will not go all the way with it.
So I call this one DemoRole.
Click on next.
And as you can see here,
within permissions there is an iam role.
This is optional.
So if I don't specify, then iam role is going
to use my own personal permissions.
But if I want to specify an iam role,
I can look at this DemoRole
for CFN with S3 capabilities.
And this role is going to be used
for all stack operations.
So that means that the role now
will not use my own personal permissions,
but this one, and because this one
is just powered with Amazon S3 permissions,
then actually my stack will fail
because my stack is actually
creating an EC2 instance.
But this is where actually the permissions
are defined if you want
to use an iam role for CloudFormation.
And that's it.
So I hope you liked it and I will see you
in the next lecture.